Opensearch datastax blog post, new member bits (#2946)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2024-06-06-opensearch-partnering-with-datastax-on-generative-ai.md

Reviewer: Amazon sponsors OpenSearch to ensure the continuing existence => Amazon sponsors the OpenSearch project

that users could use, modify, and extend however they wish => could use -> can use

The OpenSearch community is full of active contributors, maintainers, and partners => In addition to AWS, the OpenSearch community ...

OpenSearch supports hybrid vector/text search with score normalization, and sparse vector search => OpenSearch supports semantic search with vector embeddings, multi-modal search, hybrid search with score normalization, and sparse vector search.

Author: Thanks for the review! Suggested changes have been made and have merged latest.

Reviewer: Thanks @zznate!

---
layout: post
title:  "Announcing an OpenSearch and DataStax partnership on Generative AI"
authors:
  - zznate 

> date: 2024-06-06

Reviewer 2: Update the date to: 2024-06-13

categories:
  - community
  - partners

> meta_keywords: 

Reviewer 2: Please update the meta with the following: 

**meta_keywords:** Generative AI, retrieval augmented generation , DataStax HCDP, OpenSearch integrations

**meta_description:** Learn about the collaboration between open source startup DataStax and the OpenSearch Project on integration efforts to support Generative AI developers.

Amazon sponsors the OpenSearch project to ensure the continuing existence of an open source search engine that users can use, modify, and extend however they wish.  In addition to AWS, the OpenSearch community is full of active contributors, maintainers, and partners. For Generative AI specifically, OpenSearch brings:

* **Ease of use**: OpenSearch provides easy-to-use indexing and search capabilities and has built in features for text analysis, tokenization, and relevance scoring
* **Optimized for text retrieval**: OpenSearch makes it easy to find and rank documents based on keyword queries
* **Versatility**: OpenSearch can handle a wide variety of data types and formats
* **AI/ML integration**: OpenSearch supports semantic search with vector embeddings, multi-modal search, hybrid search with score normalization, and sparse vector search

> DataStax is a leading contributor to a range of open source projects, including [Langflow](https://langflow.org/), [Apache Cassandra](https://cassandra.apache.org/_/index.html), and [JVector](https://github.com/jbellis/jvector), which provides vector search through DiskANN and advanced GenAI techniques like COLBert. Generative AI developers seek this database and vector combination to provide: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
DataStax is a leading contributor to a range of open-source projects, including [Langflow](https://langflow.org/), [Apache Cassandra](https://cassandra.apache.org/_/index.html), and [JVector](https://github.com/jbellis/jvector), which provides vector search through DiskANN and advanced generative AI techniques like COLBert. Generative AI developers use this database and vector combination to provide the following functionality: 
```

> * **Context assembly**: Langflow delivers a UI to discover ecosystem components and compose the workflows that back Generative AI applications

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Context assembly**: Langflow provides a UI for discovering ecosystem components and composing the workflows that back generative AI applications.
```

> * **Similarity search**: JVector offers high-performance vector similarity search and can handle embedding-based queries which require low latency and high relevance

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Similarity search**: JVector offers high-performance vector similarity search and can handle embedding-based queries, which require low latency and high relevance.
```

> * **Scalability**: Cassandra offers scalable persistence for structured and semi-structured data

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Scalability**: Cassandra offers scalable persistence for structured and semi-structured data.
```

> The combination of these technologies enable semantic and keyword searches as well as hybrid query processing. Context is assembled using: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The combination of these technologies enables semantic and keyword searches as well as hybrid query processing. Context is assembled using: 
```

> * Keyword queries which are directed to OpenSearch to retrieve relevant documents

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Keyword queries, which are directed to OpenSearch to retrieve relevant documents.
```

> * Semantic queries use JVector and Cassandra to find the most relevant data points based on vector similarity

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Semantic queries, which use JVector and Cassandra to find the most relevant data points based on vector similarity.
```

> * Database queries which provide known personalization, profile, and transactional data

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Database queries, which provide known personalization, profile, and transactional data.
```

> ### **Moving Forward**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### **Moving forward**
```

> DataStax will maintain a JVector integration for OpenSearch, and offer OpenSearch as part of their self-managed offering platform, HCDP (Hyper Converged Data Platform) and as integration to their cloud service, Astra. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
DataStax will maintain a JVector integration for OpenSearch and offer OpenSearch as part of its self-managed offering platform, HCDP (Hyper Converged Data Platform), and as an integration for its cloud service, Astra. 
```

> DataStax will maintain a JVector integration for OpenSearch, and offer OpenSearch as part of their self-managed offering platform, HCDP (Hyper Converged Data Platform) and as integration to their cloud service, Astra. 

Reviewer 3: Should we include links to information about HCDP and Astra?

Author: We have call to action on bottom that lands pretty close.

> Enterprises have spent years investing in search infrastructure. With the inclusion of OpenSearch, DataStax can give developers the most flexible information retrieval possible with applications already familiar to many enterprises. OpenSearch bridges the gap between single document Q&A and open domain Q&A: essentially providing the ability to reason across multiple, diverse documents and texts by tying keyword searching in OpenSearch alongside dense vector search of JVector in Astra and HCDP. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Enterprises have spent years investing in search infrastructure. With the inclusion of OpenSearch, DataStax can provide developers the most flexible information retrieval possible using applications already familiar to many enterprises. OpenSearch bridges the gap between single-document Q&A and open-domain Q&A, essentially providing the ability to reason across multiple diverse documents and texts by combining keyword search in OpenSearch with the dense vector search of JVector in Astra and HCDP. 
```

> For Generative AI, relevance wins and through this partnership we will ensure that your enterprise data estate can act as context for RAG and GenAI workflows to provide as much data to the context as possible. For more information, see the [HCDP announcement here](https://www.datastax.com/fr/blog/introducing-vector-search-for-self-managed-modern-architecture).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For generative AI, relevance wins, and through this partnership we will ensure that your enterprise data estate can act as context for RAG and generative AI workflows to provide as much data to the context as possible. For more information, see the [HCDP announcement](https://www.datastax.com/fr/blog/introducing-vector-search-for-self-managed-modern-architecture).
```

> For Generative AI, relevance wins and through this partnership we will ensure that your enterprise data estate can act as context for RAG and GenAI workflows to provide as much data to the context as possible. For more information, see the [HCDP announcement here](https://www.datastax.com/fr/blog/introducing-vector-search-for-self-managed-modern-architecture).

Reviewer 3: The meaning of "relevance wins" may be unclear to some readers. Do we mean something like "relevance is critical"?

Author: That's a fair point.
